Add KubeOne bare-metal tutorial (#694)
kubermatic/docs: content/kubeone/master/tutorials/creating_clusters_baremetal/_index.en.md

date = 2021-02-10T12:00:00+02:00
weight = 2
enableToc = true
+++

> In this tutorial, we're going to show how to use Kubermatic KubeOne to create

Reviewer: Can you add this tutorial to the v1.3 docs as well? The placeholder file should already exist, and the content should be the same.

```

You can confirm that KubeOne has been installed successfully by running the
`kubeone version` command. If you see an error, ensure that `/usr/local/bin` is
in your `PATH` or modify the script to install KubeOne in a different place.
You can also check the [Getting KubeOne guide][getting-kubeone] for alternative
installation methods.

## Step 2 — Creating The Infrastructure

With KubeOne installed, we're ready to create the infrastructure for our cluster.
Because we are not using any provider, it is up to you to create the necessary infrastructure.
Please refer to the [Infrastructure Management document][infrastructure-management] for the requirements.
You need to provide Infrastructure for both the control-plane and the worker nodes.

Usually the Kubermatic machine-controller would take care of managing the worker nodes.
However, without a provider we can not make use of it.

For the following steps, we assume that the required infrastructure is in place and SSH access is ensured.
More information about SSH requirements and configuration can be found in the [Configuring SSH][configuring-ssh] guide.

> ## Step 3 — Provisioning The Cluster

Reviewer: Nit: new line.

```suggestion

## Step 3 — Provisioning The Cluster
```

## Step 4 — Configuring The Cluster Access

KubeOne automatically downloads the Kubeconfig file for the cluster. It's named
as **\<cluster_name>-kubeconfig**. You can use it with kubectl such as:

```shell
kubectl --kubeconfig=<cluster_name>-kubeconfig
```

or export the `KUBECONFIG` environment variable:

```shell
export KUBECONFIG=$PWD/<cluster_name>-kubeconfig
```

If you want to learn more about kubeconfig and managing access to your
clusters, you can check the
[Configure Access To Multiple Clusters][access-clusters] document.

You can try to list all nodes in the cluster to confirm that you can access
the cluster:

```shell
kubectl get nodes
```

You should see output such as the following one.

```
NAME                                           STATUS   ROLES    AGE   VERSION
ip-172-31-220-51.eu-west-3.compute.internal    Ready    master   43m   v1.20.4
ip-172-31-221-177.eu-west-3.compute.internal   Ready    master   42m   v1.20.4
ip-172-31-222-48.eu-west-3.compute.internal    Ready    master   41m   v1.20.4
ip-172-31-223-103.eu-west-3.compute.internal   Ready    <none>   38m   v1.20.4
ip-172-31-224-178.eu-west-3.compute.internal   Ready    <none>   38m   v1.20.4
```

> ## Conclusion

Reviewer: Nit: new line.

```suggestion

## Conclusion
```

```shell
curl -sfL get.kubeone.io | sh
```

The script downloads the latest version of KubeOne from GitHub, and unpacks it
in the `/usr/local/bin` directory. Additionally, the script unpacks the example
Terraform configs, addons, and helper scripts in your current working
directory. At the end of the script output, you can find the path to the
unpacked files:

{{% notice note %}}
The addons and helper scripts are supposed to be used for advanced deployments
and we will not use those in this tutorial. They're not required by KubeOne, so
you're not required to keep to them.
{{% /notice %}}

```shell
...
Kubermatic KubeOne has been installed into /usr/local/bin/kubeone
Terraform example configs, addons, and helper scripts have been downloaded into the ./kubeone_1.2.0-beta.1_linux_amd64 directory
```

You can confirm that KubeOne has been installed successfully by running the
`kubeone version` command. If you see an error, ensure that `/usr/local/bin` is
in your `PATH` or modify the script to install KubeOne in a different place.
You can also check the [Getting KubeOne guide][getting-kubeone] for alternative
installation methods.

## Step 2 — Creating The Infrastructure

> With KubeOne installed and the environment configured, we're ready to create the infrastructure for our cluster.

Reviewer: We don't have the environment configuration step in this tutorial.

```suggestion
With KubeOne installed, we're ready to create the infrastructure for our cluster.
```

> Because we are not using any provider, it is up to you, to create the necessary infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because we are not using any provider, it is up to you to create the necessary infrastructure.
```

Please refer to the [Infrastructure Management][infrastructure-management] for the requirements.

> You need to provide Infrastructure for both the control-plane and the worker nodes.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to provide Infrastructure for both the control plane and the worker nodes.
```

> Usually the Kubermatic machine-controller would take care of the worker node management.

Reviewer: This might sound slightly better.

```suggestion
Usually, the Kubermatic machine-controller would take care of managing the worker nodes.
```

However, without a provider we can not make use of it.

> For the following steps we assume that the required infrastructure is in place and ssh access is ensured.
> More information about ssh requirements and configuration can be found in the [Configuring SSH][configuring-ssh] guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the following steps, we assume that the required infrastructure is in place and SSH access is ensured.
More information about SSH requirements and configuration can be found in the [Configuring SSH][configuring-ssh] guide.
```

## Step 3 — Provisioning The Cluster

Now that we have the infrastructure, we can use KubeOne to provision a Kubernetes cluster.

> The first step is to create a KubeOne configuration manifest that describes how
> the cluster will be provisioned, which Kubernetes version will be used,
> and more. To see possible configuration options reference, you can run `kubeone config print --full`.

Reviewer: The most important part of the configuration manifest for bare metal setups is the list of instances that will be used. I'd say something along:

```suggestion
The first step is to create a KubeOne configuration manifest that contains a list of instances that will be used, and that describes how the cluster will be provisioned, which Kubernetes version will be used,
and more. To see possible configuration options reference, you can run `kubeone config print --full`.
```

> For a bare metal deployment we need to set the `cloudProvider` to `none: {}`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For clusters running on providers that are not natively-supported (e.g. bare metal), we need to set the `cloudProvider` to `none: {}`.
```

> In order to prevent KubeOne from deploying the Kubermatic machine controller, which requires a cloud provider, set `machineController` to `deploy: false`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to prevent KubeOne from deploying the Kubermatic machine-controller, which requires a cloud provider, set `machineController` to `deploy: false`.
```

> Next we need to define our control-plane and worker nodes, referenced as [staticWorkers][static-workers], in the KubeOneCluster configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, we need to define our control plane and worker nodes, referenced as [staticWorkers][static-workers], in the KubeOneCluster configuration.
```

> Furthermore, the `apiEndpoint` needs to be set to a load balancer or to the first control-plane node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Furthermore, the `apiEndpoint` needs to be set to a load balancer or the first control plane node.
```

You can find more information about load balancing at [HA load balancing][ha-load-balancing].

> Below you find an example reference about the minimum necessary information, for a bare metal deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below you find an example reference about the minimum necessary information for a bare metal deployment.
```

versions:
  kubernetes: '1.20.4'
cloudProvider:
  none: {}

controlPlane:
  hosts:
    - publicAddress: '1.2.3.4'
      privateAddress: '172.18.0.1'
      sshUsername: root
      sshPrivateKeyFile: '/home/me/.ssh/id_rsa'
      taints:
        - key: "node-role.kubernetes.io/master"
          effect: "NoSchedule"

staticWorkers:
  hosts:
    - publicAddress: '1.2.3.5'
      privateAddress: '172.18.0.2'
      sshUsername: root
      sshPrivateKeyFile: '/home/me/.ssh/id_rsa'

# Provide the external address of your load balancer or the public addresses of
# the first control plane nodes.
apiEndpoint:
  host: ''
  port: 6443

machineController:
  deploy: false
```

Before proceeding, make sure to select the Kubernetes version that you want
to use, add your controlPlane and staticWorkers hosts and replace the placeholder values with real values where applicable.

In the following table, you can find a list of supported Kubernetes version
for latest KubeOne versions (you can run `kubeone version` to find the version
that you're running).

| KubeOne version | 1.20       | 1.19 | 1.18 | 1.17 |
| --------------- | ---------- | ---- | ---- | ---- |
| v1.2+         | ✓ | ✓    | ✓    | -   |

> | v1.0+         | - | ✓    | ✓    | ✓\*\*   |

Reviewer: Can you add 1.21 to this list? It's supported by KubeOne v1.2.

Terraform configs, addons, and helper scripts in your current working
directory. At the end of the script output, you can find the path to the
unpacked files:

{{% notice note %}}
The addons and helper scripts are supposed to be used for advanced deployments
and we will not use those in this tutorial. They're not required by KubeOne, so
you're not required to keep to them.
{{% /notice %}}

```shell
...
Kubermatic KubeOne has been installed into /usr/local/bin/kubeone
Terraform example configs, addons, and helper scripts have been downloaded into the ./kubeone_1.2.0-beta.1_linux_amd64 directory
```

You can confirm that KubeOne has been installed successfully by running the
`kubeone version` command. If you see an error, ensure that `/usr/local/bin` is
in your `PATH` or modify the script to install KubeOne in a different place.
You can also check the [Getting KubeOne guide][getting-kubeone] for alternative
installation methods.

## Step 2 — Creating The Infrastructure

With KubeOne installed, we're ready to create the infrastructure for our cluster.
Because we are not using any provider, it is up to you to create the necessary infrastructure.

> Please refer to the [Infrastructure Management document][infrastructure-management] for the requirements.
> You need to provide Infrastructure for both the control plane and the worker nodes.

Reviewer: I don't think that we need to link to this document any longer. You can say something along:

```suggestion
Below you can find the infrastructure requirements and recommendations for control plane and worker nodes.
```

Depending on the environment, you may need additional objects, such as VPCs,
firewall rules, or images.

### Infrastructure For Worker Nodes

The requirements for the worker istances are similar as for the control
plane instances:

* All instances must satisfy the
  [system requirements for a kubeadm cluster][kubeadm-sysreq]
  * Minimum 2 vCPUs
  * Minimum 2 GB RAM
  * Operating system must be a [officially-supported by KubeOne][supported-os]
    (Ubuntu, Debian, CentOS, RHEL, Flatcar Linux)
  * Full network connectivity between all machines in the cluster
    (private network is recommended, but public is supported as well)
  * Unique hostname, MAC address, and product_uuid for every node
    * You can get the MAC address of the network interfaces using the command
      `ip link` or `ifconfig -a`
    * The product_uuid can be checked by using the command
      `sudo cat /sys/class/dmi/id/product_uuid`
  * Swap disabled. You MUST disable swap in order for the kubelet to work
    properly.
  * The following ports open: `10250`, and optionally `30000-32767` for
    NodePort Services
* You must have an SSH key deployed on all control plane instances and

>   SSH configured as described in the [Configuring SSH][ssh] document

Reviewer: This link doesn't work. I think this should fix it:

```suggestion
  SSH configured as described in the [Configuring SSH][configuring-ssh] document
```
